# K3YRING
[An Open Source Password Manager with Decentralized Data Synchronization](http://www.untrix.com/w3/html/web.html).
Released under [GNU AGPL license version 3](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.txt).

For usage and download information see the [website](http://www.untrix.com/w3/html/web.html). Instructions for setting up the dev environment are in Readme files in respective folders.

    The project is not being actively maintained. If you want to resume development, fork it and off you go!
    Feel free to reach me if needed though. Specifically, since the NPAPI API was desupported by Goole Chrome
    back in 2014, I need someone to port this entire code to [electronjs](https://electronjs.org/). Then it
    will be a self contained browser+keyring that will work on Windows, Mac and Linux (but not iOS or Android).

## History of the Project
I started this project back in 2012 with an aim to solve the follwing problems:
1. A ubiquitous and secure password-wallet that I could use to access my credentials wherever I went. I coined the three P's 1) **Personal**, 2) **Private** and 3) **Portable**.
1. A password manager that would flawlessly **auto-fill** and **auto-capture** credentials to/from web pages. I had been using password managers for over a decade and all password managers available at that time did a very poor job of this. I wanted to fix that. I was certainly convinced that they were needed - but also knew that people would adopt it only if they worked flawlessly. After having surveyed the busiest ~700 websites of the world, I created my own password form detection algorithm and it worked in 98%+ of the cases flawlessly. For the other <2% cases, I created a override method that would enable the system to collect and use hints for the troublesome webpages. These hints could be automatically collected when an end-user corrected a mistake made by the product (by simply dragging a suggested username/password to the correct form field). Thus all these hints were crowd sourced resulting in flawless execution! We compared it with a commercial product being distributed by a very popular ISP in the US, and this product was way more accurate (so much so that they wanted to acquire it). More details about this are available in the [provisional patent filing application (page 5 onwards)](docs/DND_patent.pdf).
1. The third 'P' - portability implied that my credentials should be available to me on every device (i.e. various browsers, mobile phones, gaming consoles, set-top boxes, 'Roku's, smart-TVs etc.). This implied not only developing the auto-fill and auto-capture functions on each device, but synchronizing the passwords across all of these. For something as sensitive as my passwords I didn't trust a thirdparty saving my passwords onto their cloud (all password managers that synchronize data across devices do that - because none of them have **decentralized / serverless data synchronization**). Therefore the synchronization had to be strictly serverless. I also wanted to make it light-weight enough to completely run on JavaScript inside a browser running on a mobile device as well as offline (i.e. not requiring a network connection to function). Having worked in the data-synchronization domain as a Chief Architect previously, I was aware that all existing synchronization technologies had a store-and-forward architecture - i.e. all data-changes were first synchronized to a central 'master' database in the cloud. This architecture introduced lot of complexity in the solution but which could be entirely avoided in this case. Therefore I created new data-synchronization system that avoided the store-and-forward architeture altogether, and was very light-weight. In order to do this I needed to think about data very differently i.e., as a wave, not particle! (am referring to the wave v/s particle theory of light). This change in point of view allowed me to invent what I called a 'Fragment DB'; a mini data-base that would allow n-way, offline synchronization of data across any number of FragmentDBs. There is a lot more detail to this and you can find it in the [provisional patent application (page 5 onwards)](docs/FDB_patent.pdf). To my knowledge nobody else has invented this (git repos may have a similar design but I haven't checked so I don't know).

In order to achieve the above objectives I chose to implement a fully working product as a Google Chrome browser extension. All code was writtein in JavaScript and self-contained within the chrome-extension. However, since Chrome API won't let me read or list files on a desktop, I had to create a NPAPI plugin that would open a Windows Explorer dialog box to let you choose the password files to load etc. This unfortunately caused a dependency on the platform (i.e. Windows, Mac etc.). I built that on top of the [firebreath](http://www.firebreath.org/) toolkit. It worked very well. 

The product is worldclass in quality - contains two novel inventoins - and was distributed for free on the Google Chrome Webstore from 2013 through 2014. However, in 2014 I decided to pause my commercialization efforts for a bit (after having turned down two acquisition offers). Later, when Google discontinued supporting the NPAPI API causing the product to stop working, I pulled it from the webstore. It can be resurrected however, by porting the code over to the [electronjs](https://electronjs.org/) platform. Am releasing it to open-source in the hope that this work will continue and make available a free, opensource, worldclass password manager alternative to the closed-source proprietary cloud-based ones that are out there today.
